Add gRPC load test for allocation service (#1867)
googleforgames/agones: test/load/allocation/grpc/README.md

# Load Test for gRPC allocation service

This load tests aims to validate performance of the gRPC allocation service.

## Kubernetes Cluster Setup

> For the load test you can follow the regular Kubernetes and Agones setup. In order to test the the allocation performance in isolation, we let the Agones to actuate all

Author: Yes.

> For the load test you can follow the regular Kubernetes and Agones setup. In order to test the the allocation performance in isolation, we let the Agones to actuate all

Author: Updated

the game servers beefor starting the test.
Here are the few important things:

> - Install Kubernetes in a region not zone to avoid being impacted by the rollouts

Author: Updated. Thanks for the suggestion

> - Consider using multiple cpu VMs for the agones-system node pool. We used n1-4 type VMs 

Author: Updated

> - In the default-node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), make sure there are enough nodes available so Agones can actuate the game servers. We set the clustre count to 25 pre zonee (total of 75 per region)

Author: Updated

> - In the default-node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), make sure there are enough nodes available so Agones can actuate the game servers. We set the clustre count to 25 pre zonee (total of 75 per region)

Author: Updated

> - In the default-node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), make sure there are enough nodes available so Agones can actuate the game servers. We set the clustre count to 25 pre zonee (total of 75 per region)

Author: Updated

## Configuring the Allocator Service

> The allocator service uses gRPC. In order to be able to call the service, TLS and optionally mTLS has to be setup.

Reviewer: Looking at the code setting up mTLS seems to be required.

> The allocator service uses gRPC. In order to be able to call the service, TLS and optionally mTLS has to be setup.

Author: Removed optionally

> For more information visit [agones-allocator]({{< relref "https://agones.dev/site/docs/advanced/allocator-service/">}}).

Author: Updated

## Fleet Setting

> We used the following fleet configuration during out testing. It creates 4000 simple-udp game servers. 

Reviewer: s/out/our

Author: Fixed

> Also uaing the automaticShutdownDelayMin parameter to 10, simple-udp game servers shutdown after 10 minutes.

Reviewer: `automaticShutdownDelayMin`

Author: Updated

> Also uaing the automaticShutdownDelayMin parameter to 10, simple-udp game servers shutdown after 10 minutes.

Author: Fixed

> This helps to easily re-run the test without requiring to delete the game servers. 

Reviewer: s/requiring/having

Author: Updated

> ```yaml

Reviewer: This looks like an inlined version of fleet.yaml (in the same PR). I worry they will get out of sync (DRY principle). 

Maybe just stick a link in here to the fleet.yaml file (it would be awesome if github would render a linked file inline like it does for images but I couldn't find a way to do that).

Author: Makes sense. I referenced the one from the master. I mentioned and highlight the changes. PTAL

apiVersion: "agones.dev/v1"
kind: Fleet
metadata:
  name: fleet-example
spec:
  # the number of GameServers to keep Ready or Allocated in this Fleet
  replicas: 4000
  strategy:
    type: RollingUpdate
    rollingUpdate:
      maxSurge: 25%
      maxUnavailable: 25%
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        foo: bar
    # GameServer specification
    spec:
        health: {}
        ports:
        - containerPort: 7654
          name: default
        sdkServer: {}
        # The GameServer's Pod template
        template:
            spec:
                containers:
                - args:
                  # We setup the simple-udp server to shutdown 10 mins after allocation 
                  - -automaticShutdownDelayMin=10
                  image: gcr.io/agones-images/udp-server:0.21
                  name: simple-udp
                  resources:
                  limits:
                    cpu: 20m
                    memory: 32Mi
                  requests:
                    cpu: 20m
                    memory: 32Mi
```

> ## Configuring the Allocator Service

Reviewer: This section is in here twice (here and above the Fleet Setting section). Please remove one of them.

Author: Done

The allocator service uses gRPC. In order to be able to call the service, TLS and optionally mTLS has to be setup.
For more information visit [agones-allocator]({{< relref "https://agones.dev/site/docs/advanced/allocator-service/">}}).

## Running the test

You can use the provided runAllocation.sh file. Before you run, you need to update the values in runAllocation.sh

```
TESTRUNSCOUNT=3
NAMESPACE=default      # Namescape of the fleet
EXTERNAL_IP=<IP_ADRESSS_TO_THE_ALLOCATOR_SERVICES_LOAD_BALANCER>

> KEY_FILE=client.key    # Path to mTLS client key file 

Reviewer: Above it says that mTLS may be enabled. Are the KEY_FILE and CERT_FILE only required if it is?

Reviewer: Reading the code these do not look optional.

Author: removed optional

CERT_FILE=client.crt   # Path to mTLS client cert file
TLS_CA_FILE=ca.crt     # Path to TLS CA file
```
Once you update these values, you can run the run.sh script by providing two parameters: 
- number of clients (to do parallel allocations)

> - numbre of allocations for client

Reviewer: s/numbre/number

Author: fixed

> For making 4000 allocations call, you can provide 40 and 100

Reviewer: Should you always do the same number of allocations as the number of replicas in the fleet that you create?

Author: You don't have to. In this test, I wanted to observe how many GSs left unallocated (ready) because of allocation failures.

> For making 4000 allocations call, you can provide 40 and 100

Reviewer: s/call/calls

# Load Test for gRPC allocation service

This load tests aims to validate performance of the gRPC allocation service.

## Kubernetes Cluster Setup

For the load test you can follow the regular Kubernetes and Agones setup. In order to test the allocation performance in isolation, we let Agones to get all
the game servers to Ready state before starting a test.
Here are the few important things:
- If you are running in GCP, use a regional cluster instead of a zonal cluster to ensure high availability of the cluster control plane
- Use a dedicated node pool for the Agones controllers with multiple CPUs per node, e.g. `n1-standard-4'
- In the default node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), 75 nodes are required to make sure there are enough nodes available for all game servers to move into the ready state. When using a regional cluster, with three zones with the region, that will require a configuration of 25 nodes per zone.

## Fleet Setting

> We used the sample [fleet configuration](https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/blob/master/examples/fleet.yaml) with some minor modifications. We updated the `replicas` to 4000. 

Author: Updated

This helps to easily re-run the test without having to delete the game servers and allows to run tests continously. 

```yaml
apiVersion: "agones.dev/v1"
kind: Fleet
 ...
 spec:
  # the number of GameServers to keep Ready 
  replicas: 4000
  ...
        # The GameServer's Pod template
        template:
            spec:
                containers:
                - args:
                  # We setup the simple-udp server to shutdown 10 mins after allocation 
                  - -automaticShutdownDelayMin=10
                  image: gcr.io/agones-images/udp-server:0.21
                  name: simple-udp
  ...
```

## Configuring the Allocator Service

The allocator service uses gRPC. In order to be able to call the service, TLS and mTLS has to be setup.
For more information visit [Allocator Service](https://agones.dev/site/docs/advanced/allocator-service).

## Running the test

You can use the provided runAllocation.sh script by providing two parameters: 
- number of clients (to do parallel allocations)
- number of allocations for client

For making 4000 allocations calls, you can provide 40 and 100

```
./runAllocation.sh 40 100
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Thinking we might want to also make mention of the environment variables that are able to be set, as well as their default values, an example might also be nice, something like:

To run only a single run of tests, you can use: 

```bash
$ TESTRUNSCOUNT=1 ./runAllocation.sh 40 10
```

Author: Add a sample

# Load Test for gRPC allocation service

This load tests aims to validate performance of the gRPC allocation service.

## Kubernetes Cluster Setup

For the load test you can follow the regular Kubernetes and Agones setup. In order to test the allocation performance in isolation, we let Agones to get all
the game servers to Ready state before starting a test.
Here are the few important things:
- If you are running in GCP, use a regional cluster instead of a zonal cluster to ensure high availability of the cluster control plane
- Use a dedicated node pool for the Agones controllers with multiple CPUs per node, e.g. `n1-standard-4'

> - In the default node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), make sure there are enough nodes available for all game servers to move into the ready state. We set the cluster count to 25 per zone (total of 75 per region)

Reviewer 2: > (total of 75 per region)

Do you mean (total of 75 _across_ regions) ?

```suggestion
- In the default node pool (where the Game Server pods are created), 75 nodes are required to make sure there are enough nodes available for all game servers to move into the ready state. When using a regional cluster, with three zones with the region, that will require a configuration of 25 nodes per zone.
```

Is that better?

Author: SG. Updated.

                - args:
                  # We setup the simple-udp server to shutdown 10 mins after allocation 
                  - -automaticShutdownDelayMin=10
                  image: gcr.io/agones-images/udp-server:0.21
                  name: simple-udp
  ...
```

## Configuring the Allocator Service

The allocator service uses gRPC. In order to be able to call the service, TLS and mTLS has to be setup.
For more information visit [Allocator Service](https://agones.dev/site/docs/advanced/allocator-service).

## Running the test

You can use the provided runAllocation.sh file. Before you run, you need to update the values in runAllocation.sh

```
TESTRUNSCOUNT=3
NAMESPACE=default      # Namescape of the fleet
EXTERNAL_IP=<IP_ADRESSS_TO_THE_ALLOCATOR_SERVICES_LOAD_BALANCER>
KEY_FILE=client.key    # Path to mTLS client key file 
CERT_FILE=client.crt   # Path to mTLS client cert file
TLS_CA_FILE=ca.crt     # Path to TLS CA file
```
Once you update these values, you can run the run.sh script by providing two parameters: 
- number of clients (to do parallel allocations)
- number of allocations for client

For making 4000 allocations calls, you can provide 40 and 100

```

> ./run.sh 40 100

Reviewer 2: Unless I am missing something, there is no run.sh?

Author: Should be runAllocation.sh. Fixed
